Runtime API intro (#684)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/index.md

---
api: runtime
---
The runtime API provides methods to support a number of areas:

<dl>
<dt>Message passing</dt>
<dd><ul>
<li>connect runtime.connect(extensionId: string, connectInfo: object): Port</li>
<li>connectNative runtime.connectNative(application: string): Port</li>
<li>sendMessage runtime.sendMessage(extensionId?: string, message: any, options: object, 
responseCallback: function)</li>
<li>sendNativeMessage runtime.sendNativeMessage(application: string, message: object, 

> responseCallback: function)</li>

Reviewer: Should we link out here to the message passing article?  That seems like it would be a good standard for intros (linking to the more in-depth articles and / or how-tos)

Author: Done.

</ul></dd>

<dt>Accessing extension and platform metadata</dt>
<dd><ul>
<li>getBackgroundPage runtime.getBackgroundPage(callback: function)</li>
<li>getManifest runtime.getManifest(): object</li>
<li>getPackageDirectoryEntry runtime.getPackageDirectoryEntry(callback: function)</li>
<li>getPlatformInfo runtime.getPlatformInfo(callback: function)</li>
</ul></dd>

<dt>Managing extension execution and lifecycle</dt>
<dd><ul>
<li>reload runtime.reload()</li>
<li>requestUpdateCheck runtime.requestUpdateCheck(callback: function)</li>
<li>restart runtime.restart()</li>
<li>restartAfterDelay runtime.restartAfterDelay(seconds: number, callback: function)</li>
<li>setUninstallURL runtime.setUninstallURL(url: string, callback: function)</li>
<li>openOptionsPage runtime.openOptionsPage(callback: function)</li>

> </ul></dd>

Reviewer: I think this category is the "fuzziest".  It's not clear to me how all of these are execution and lifecycle related (e.g., openOptionsPage()).

Also worth noting: restart() and restartAfterDelay() refer to restarting *the device*, not the extension - these are only available in kiosk mode on CrOS.  I think they probably warrant a slightly different section.

Author: Renamed the category "Managing extension lifecycle and options"; WDYT? Also moved the restart methods to their own category.

---
api: runtime
---
The runtime API provides methods to support a number of areas of functionality that your extensions
can use:

Message passing

> : These methods support message passing between tasks within the extension (such as background
>   scripts) and with the native system on which the browser is running. See [Message

Reviewer: To me, this almost reads as if this only supports passing messages between extension bits and the native system, rather than intra-extension tasks *and* the system.  Also, messaging can be used to communicate with other extensions.  The intra-extension messaging is probably most popular.  What about:

```suggestion
: These methods support message passing so that you can communicate with different parts of your extension (such as an extension popup and background scripts), other extensions, or native applications on the user's device. See [Message
```

  [getPlatformInfo](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-getPlatformInfo).

Managing extension lifecycle and options

: These methods let you perform some meta-operations on the extension, and display the options page
  to the extension user. Methods in this category include 
  [reload](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-reload),
  [requestUpdateCheck](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-requestUpdateCheck),
  [setUninstallURL](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-setUninstallURL), and
  [openOptionsPage](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-openOptionsPage).

Device restart support

: These methods are available only on Chrome OS, and exist mainly to support kiosk implementations.
  Methods in this category include 
  [restart](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-restart) and
  [restartAfterDelay](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-restartAfterDelay).

Helper utilities

: This utility provide utility such as the conversion of internal resource representations to
  external formats. Methods in this category include 
  [getURL](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-getURL).

## Manifest

> There are no permissions or other manifest requirements to use the runtime API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most methods on the runtime API do not require any permission to use.  However, sendNativeMessage[linky] and connectNative[linky] require the `nativeMessaging` permission to be declared in your manifest.
```

---
api: runtime
---
The runtime API provides methods to support a number of areas of functionality that your extensions
can use:

Message passing

: These methods support message passing between tasks within the extension (such as background
  scripts) and with the native system on which the browser is running. See [Message
  Passing][message-passing] for an overview of the subject.
  
  * [runtime.connect(extensionId: string, connectInfo: object): Port](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-connect)
  * [runtime.connectNative(application: string): Port]()
  * [runtime.sendMessage(extensionId?: string, message: any, options: object, responseCallback: function)]()

>   * [runtime.sendNativeMessage(application: string, message: object, responseCallback: function)]()

Reviewer: Thinking about this more, I worry that these are just going to get out of date.  Any time we add a new method, change a signature, change how we represent the signatures in the docs, etc, they are invalidated.

What do you think about:
- Keeping the categories
- Having each category reference and link to "such as" methods

Example:

Message passing
: These methods support passing messages between different contexts.  These can be used either for contexts within your own extension (with [runtime.connect()] and [runtime.sendMessage()], or with native applications on the machine leveraging [native messaging](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/apps/nativeMessaging/).  
See [Message  Passing][message-passing] for an overview of the subject.

Author: I agree with this concern. I did something similar to your suggestion, but a little more boilerplate-like, so that

- instead of a bullet list of methods (with signatures!), it has a run-in list of method names
- it says each time "Methods in this category include"

WDYT?

Accessing extension and platform metadata

: These methods let you retrieve several specific pieces of metadata about the extension and the platform:
  
  * [runtime.getBackgroundPage(callback: function)]()
  * [runtime.getManifest(): object]()
  * [runtime.getPackageDirectoryEntry(callback: function)]()
  * [runtime.getPlatformInfo(callback: function)]()

Managing extension lifecycle and options

: These methods let you perform some meta-operations on the extension, and display the options page
  to the extension user.

  * [runtime.reload()]()
  * [runtime.requestUpdateCheck(callback: function)]()
  * [runtime.setUninstallURL(url: string, callback: function)]()
  * [runtime.openOptionsPage(callback: function)]()

Device restart support

: These methods are available only on Chrome OS, and exist mainly to support kiosk implementations.

  * [runtime.restart()]()
  * [runtime.restartAfterDelay(seconds: number, callback: function)]()

Helper utilities

: This utility lets you convert the path of a resource in your extension to a URL that the browser
  can resolve.

  * [runtime.getURL(path: string): string]()

## Manifest

> There are no permissions or other manifest requirements for the runtime API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no permissions or other manifest requirements to use the runtime API.
```
